{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 //Programmer: Paulo Dacaya\
//Program:    \
\
#include <iostream>\
#include <fstream>\
#include <iomanip>\
#include <string>\
#include <ctime>\
\
using namespace std;\
\
//function prototypes.\
void writeRandNums ();\
\
int main() \{\
	\
	int numbers[40] = \{0\};\
	int counter = 0; //counter for array (while loop).\
	int total = 0; //total value to find average. \
	int average = 0; //average value.\
	int small = 101; //to calculate smallest value.\
	int high = 0; //to calculate largerst value.\
	\
	writeRandNums(); //generate 40 random numbers in randomNumbers.txt file.\
	\
	ifstream inFile;\
	\
	inFile.open("randomNumbers.txt", ios::in); //open file for reading.\
	\
	//if the files fails to open, prompt message, close program. \
	if(inFile.fail()) \{\
		cout << "error: randomNumbers.txt file could not be opened." << endl;\
		cout << "This program will now terminate. " << endl;\
		return 1;\
	\}\
	\
	while(!inFile.eof()) \{\
		inFile >> numbers[counter];\
		inFile.ignore(); // ignore the space seprating in the numbers. \
		counter++;\
	\}\
	inFile.close(); //close file. \
	\
	for(int i = 0; i < 40; i++) \{\
		//find smallest value.\
		if(numbers[i] < small)\
			small = numbers[i];\
		\
		//find highest value\
		if(numbers[i] > high)\
			high = numbers[i]; \
			\
		total += numbers[i]; //calculate the total value. \
	\}\
	\
	//calculate average\
	average = total/40;\
	\
	ofstream outFile; //create outfil for displayed values. \
	outFile.open("newRandom.txt", ios::out);\
	\
	if(outFile.is_open()) \{\
		for(int i = 0; i < 40; i++) \{\
			cout << setw(5) << numbers[i];\
			if((i+1)%2 == 0)\
				cout << endl;\
			//end if\
			\
			//repeat for newRandom.txt output File.\
			outFile << setw(5) << numbers[i];\
			if((i+1)%2 == 0)\
				outFile << endl;\
			//end if\
		\}//end for.\
		cout << "\\nAverage = " << average;\
		cout << "\\nThe largest Number: " << high;\
		cout << "\\nThe smallest number: " << small;\
		outFile << "\\nAverage = " << average;\
		outFile << "\\nThe largest Number: " << high;\
		outFile << "\\nThe smallest number: " << small;\
	\}\
	else \{\
		cout << "error: newRandom.txt file could not be opened." << endl;\
		cout << "This program will now terminate. " << endl;\
		return 1;\
	\}// end if\
	outFile.close(); // close file.\
	\
	return 0; \
\}\
\
void writeRandNums () \{\
	\
	ofstream outFile;\
	int randNum = 0; \
	srand(time(0)); //set seed in respects to time(0);\
	\
	outFile.open("randomNumbers.txt", ios::out); //open file.\
	if(outFile.fail()) \{\
		cout << "error: randomNumbers.txt file could not be opened.";\
	\}\
	\
	for(int i = 0; i < 40; i++) \{\
		randNum = rand()%100 + 1; //generate randon numbers from 1 - 100. \
		outFile << randNum << " ";\
		if((i+1)%10 == 0)\
			outFile << endl;\
		//end if.\
	\}//end for.\
	outFile.close(); //close file. \
\}//end function.\
}